---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: default
---

# Language Learning Flashcards: Autogenerated, Personalized Flashcards

<div class="button-container">
  <a class="btn" href="https://github.com/rroessler1/speech-to-text" target="_blank">See the Code on Github</a>
  <a class="btn" href="https://ankiweb.net/shared/info/673333980" target="_blank">Download the Anki Plugin here</a>
</div>

### Abstract

This is the largest project I've ever done and the one I'm most proud of technically. The target user was an intermediate foreign language learner who was just beginning to read books. First, the user takes a vocabulary test to estimate their level.  Then, they can upload books they're reading, and the app generates flashcards from sentences in that book at their level.

### Results

* Implemented all parts of a full-stack webapp using Python, React JS, and Google Firebase
  * All of these were new tools for me that I chose because I wanted to become proficient
  * Even figuring out the entire deployment process was a huge learning
* Developed algorithm to estimate a user’s vocabulary
  * This was done using word frequency lists and asking users which words they knew by sampling at log-intervals. Their vocabulary size could confidently be estimated after about 80 words

<div class="video-container">
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/KJzD1Hllj9U?si=ZnGonz6OE2zAnSky" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
  <figcaption>The site no longer exists, but here is a demo of when it was up and running.</figcaption>
</div>
### Analysis

This was my first time attempting to build an actual product, and I learned some very valuable lessons:

* I didn't try to market it at all- it turns out marketing is both important and difficult
* Lack of market research. I built a technical tool that was exactly what I wanted, but I never understood what different features other people might want. Also, I think it was very niche, and most people wouldn't actually benefit from it the way it was